OCPBUGS-19700: Modified Route-specific annotations table and added a section for ingress controller annotation (#68972)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-route-specific-annotations.adoc

//*route definition* for the route to alter its configuration.

.Route annotations
[cols="4*", options="header"]
|===
|Variable 
|Description 

> |Ingress controller field

Author: Let me change that. It does look clustered.

> |Ingress controller annotation

Reviewer: As I suggested for "Ingress controller field", can you delete this column and incorporate the information in this column (for the one row that uses it) into the "Description" column?  

I cannot even see this column without scrolling, and so I didn't even know the table had this column until I looked at the AsciiDoc.  I am currently viewing the preview on a very large display, so I expect that most people who look at this table will not see the rightmost column and will not realize it exists.

Author: Ack.

Reviewer: My personal opinion is that keeping it as "Description" is better because it is shorter and because most rows don't mention an IngressController field, but maybe "Description & Ingress Controller Field" improves discoverability.

Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. 
|
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.concurrent-tcp`
|Limits the number of concurrent TCP connections made through the same source IP address. It accepts a numeric value. +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|
| 

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-http`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make HTTP requests. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-tcp`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make TCP connections. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout` 

> |Sets a server-side timeout for the route. (TimeUnits) 

Reviewer: Just writing "TimeUnits" here is confusing.  I see that "TimeUnits" is defined below, under the heading "Router timeout variables".  Would it be possible to add a more explicit reference, using a footnote or a link to the "Router timeout variables" heading?

Author: Let me resolve this.

> |Sets a server-side timeout for the route. (TimeUnits) 

Reviewer: For passthrough routes, `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout` applies to both client and server (see [the HAProxy configuration template](https://github.com/openshift/router/blob/b7001137f832d02d4ed68cba27fe3001ff523fa6/images/router/haproxy/conf/haproxy-config.template#L788-L789) and [the HAProxy documentation for `timeout tunnel`](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.6/configuration.html#4-timeout%20tunnel); note that passthrough routes use HAProxy's TCP mode).

Author: Ack.

|`spec.tuningOptions.serverTimeout` 
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout-tunnel` 

> |This timeout applies to a tunnel connection, for example, WebSocket over cleartext, edge, reencrypt, or passthrough routes. With cleartext, edge, or reencrypt route types, this annotation is applied as a timeout tunnel with the existing timeout value. For the passthrough route types, the annotation takes precedence over any existing timeout value set. 

Reviewer: I think this description could be clearer: 
* I cannot tell whether "for example" applies to "WebSocket" or to "WebSocket over cleartext, edge, reencrypt, or passthrough routes".  
* For passthrough routes, the tunnel timeout always applies (see [the HAProxy documentation for `timeout tunnel`](http://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.6/configuration.html#4-timeout%20tunnel)).
* I don't know what "applied as a timeout tunnel" means.  Maybe that can be deleted unless you have some idea what it means?  
* Change "types" to "type" in "the passthrough route types".  
* Instead of "takes precedence over any existing timeout value set", why not write "takes precedence over `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout`"?
```suggestion
|This timeout applies to a tunnel connection, such as WebSocket, over cleartext, edge, or reencrypt routes. For the passthrough route type, the annotation always applies and takes precedence over `haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout`. 
```

Author: Done. Let me change this accordingly.

> |`spec.tuningOptions.TunnelTimeout`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`spec.tuningOptions.tunnelTimeout`
```

Author: ACK.

|

|`ingresses.config/cluster ingress.operator.openshift.io/hard-stop-after` 
|You can set either an IngressController or the ingress config . This annotation redeploys the router and configures the HA proxy to emit the haproxy `hard-stop-after` global option, which defines the maximum time allowed to perform a clean soft-stop.
|

> |`ingress.operator.openshift.io/hard-stop-after`

Reviewer: I might have misunderstoood the original bug report, but I thought one of the requests was to remove this annotation (which is *not* a *route* annotation) from the table of route annotations, and perhaps add a new procedure to describe how to use hard-stop-after.

Author: @palonsoro I remember, we did have a discussion on this, whether to create a new section for hard-stop-after. Can you check again and let me know, if we have to create it.

Author: Let me remove the ingress controller field from the table and add a new section for hard-stop-after.

|`router.openshift.io/haproxy.health.check.interval`
|Sets the interval for the back-end health checks. (TimeUnits) 
|`spec.tuningOptions.healthCheckInterval` 
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/ip_whitelist`
|Sets an allowlist for the route. The allowlist is a space-separated list of IP addresses and CIDR ranges for the approved source addresses. Requests from IP addresses that are not in the allowlist are dropped. 

> The maximum number of IP addresses and CIDR ranges directly visible in the `haproxy.config` file is 61. [^1^] 

Reviewer: This is an implementation detail that doesn't make sense to mention here, especially since we're removing the environment variables (a similar implementation detail) from the documentation.

Reviewer: Yeah, I think the sentence about `haproxy.config` can be removed.

|
|`ingress.operator.openshift.io/hard-stop-after`

|`router.openshift.io/haproxy.health.check.interval`
|Sets the interval for the back-end health checks. (TimeUnits) 
|`spec.tuningOptions.healthCheckInterval` 
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/ip_whitelist`
| Sets an allowlist for the route. The allowlist is a space-separated list of IP addresses and CIDR ranges for the approved source addresses. Requests from IP addresses that are not in the allowlist are dropped.
|Sets an allowlist for the route. The allowlist is a space-separated list of IP addresses and CIDR ranges for the approved source addresses. Requests from IP addresses that are not in the allowlist are dropped. 

The maximum number of IP addresses and CIDR ranges directly visible in the `haproxy.config` file is 61. [^1^] 
|
|

The maximum number of IP addresses and CIDR ranges directly visible in the `haproxy.config` file is 61. [^1^] |
|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/hsts_header` 
|Sets a Strict-Transport-Security header for the edge terminated or re-encrypt route. 
|
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/hsts_header` | Sets a Strict-Transport-Security header for the edge terminated or re-encrypt route. |

> |`haproxy.router.openshift.io/log-send-hostname` | Sets the `hostname` field in the Syslog header. Uses the hostname of the system. `log-send-hostname` is enabled by default if any Ingress API logging method, such as sidecar or Syslog facility, is enabled for the router. |

Reviewer: Removing this line fixes [OCPBUGS-13195](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-13195).  :tada:!  FYI @cowgirljessi.

Author: Great.

Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. 
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.concurrent-tcp`
|Limits the number of concurrent TCP connections made through the same source IP address. It accepts a numeric value. +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
| 

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-http`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make HTTP requests. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-tcp`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make TCP connections. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout` 
|Sets a server-side timeout for the route. (TimeUnits)

> |`spec.tuningOptions.serverTimeout` 

Reviewer 2: I think that mentioning ingresscontroller fields is a good idea as it shows how to set a value for all the routes admitted by the controller. However the `tunningOptions` are not guaranteed to be specified and some default values are set by the router. These default values are often (maybe even always) mentioned in `oc explain`. Do we let the reader find them there or we want the default values to be added to the OCP docs?

Author: Shall I add note? How about this:-
"Set the spec.tuningOptions.serverTimeout field in the IngressController to apply the timeout globally.
If not set, a default value is used. To avoid confusion, always set the value explicitly.
Use oc explain to view field details, but refer to the official documentation for confirmed defaults and usage."

Reviewer 3: That may be good, but also explaining what is the default value. And not only for server timeout but for the rest of the fields.

Author: Yep the default will be added as well.

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout-tunnel` 
|This timeout applies to a tunnel connection, for example, WebSocket over cleartext, edge, reencrypt, or passthrough routes. With cleartext, edge, or reencrypt route types, this annotation is applied as a timeout tunnel with the existing timeout value. For the passthrough route types, the annotation takes precedence over any existing timeout value set. 

> |`spec.tuningOptions.TunnelTimeout`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`spec.tuningOptions.tunnelTimeout`
```
To stick to `oc explain` syntax.

|Setting `'true'` or `'TRUE'` enables rate limiting functionality which is implemented through stick-tables on the specific backend per route. +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks. 
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.concurrent-tcp`
|Limits the number of concurrent TCP connections made through the same source IP address. It accepts a numeric value. +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
| 

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-http`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make HTTP requests. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/rate-limit-connections.rate-tcp`
|Limits the rate at which a client with the same source IP address can make TCP connections. It accepts a numeric value.  +
Note: Using this annotation provides basic protection against distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks.
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/timeout` 

> |Sets a server-side timeout for the route. If not set, the default value is `60s`. (TimeUnits)

Reviewer 4: The default value of  server-side timeout seems to be 30s(sorry, the https://docs.openshift.com isn't available, I will check it  again when the docs link is available)

|

|`router.openshift.io/cookie-same-site` 
|Sets a value to restrict cookies. The values are:

`Lax`: the browser does not send cookies on cross-site requests, but does send cookies when users navigate to the origin site from an external site. This is the default browser behavior when the `SameSite` value is not specified.

`Strict`: the browser sends cookies only for same-site requests.

`None`: the browser sends cookies for both cross-site and same-site requests.

This value is applicable to re-encrypt and edge routes only. For more information, see the link:https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Set-Cookie/SameSite[SameSite cookies documentation].
|

|`haproxy.router.openshift.io/set-forwarded-headers` 
|Sets the policy for handling the `Forwarded` and `X-Forwarded-For` HTTP headers per route. The values are:

`append`: appends the header, preserving any existing header. This is the default value.

`replace`: sets the header, removing any existing header.

`never`: never sets the header, but preserves any existing header.

`if-none`: sets the header if it is not already set.
|`spec.httpHeaders.forwardedHeaderPolicy` 

|===
[.small]

> 1. If the number of IP addresses and CIDR ranges in an allowlist exceeds 61, they are written into a separate file that is then referenced from `haproxy.config`. This file is stored in the `var/lib/haproxy/router/whitelists` folder.

Reviewer 4: it looks like whitelist has been changed to allowlist, so `var/lib/haproxy/router/whitelists` should be changed to `/var/lib/haproxy/router/allowlists`
